Ro’s guide to installing MAMP and WordPress


Installation

1. Download and install MAMP

2. Run MAMP. Click on Preferneces - Apache and change the document root to your desired local server root. (In my case user/Sites.) Start Servers.

3. The MAMP home page will open. Click on phpMyAdmin - Databases and create a new database (e.g. squareparts).

4. Click on Users - Add user. Enter username (e.g. wordpress), set host to local (localhost), enter and re-enter password, and click on add user.

5. Click on Edit Privileges icon for the new user, and scroll down to database-specific privileges. In the drop down select the name of the database you created in step 4, and click the check all button, and then go.

6. Download and extract WordPress from www.wordpress.org. Copy the contents of the folder to a subfolder (e.g. “crazyname”) in your site’s root directory. (The reasons for this are two-fold, first it will keep the root of our site clean, and second it 	will add  layer of “security through obscurity”.)

7. Locate the file wp-config-sample.php and rename it to wp-config.php.

8. Open wp-config.php in a text editor and enter the DB_NAME, DB_USER, and DB_PASSWORD info we have just created in phpMyAdmin.

9. Edit the table prefix as a security measure.

10. Visit https://api.wordpress.org/secret-key/1.1/salt/ to generate Authentication Unique Keys and Salts. Copy and paste them from your browser into the relevant section of your wp-config.php. Save your revised wp-config.php file.

11. Browse to your site’s install.php in a browser. (e.g. localhost:8888/mysite/crazyname/wp-admin/install.php)

12. Enter the details for your site. DO NOT use admin as the username.

13. Copy index.php to the root of the site and edit './wp-blog-header.php' to read './crazyname/wp-blog-header.php'.

14. Lastly, login to WordPress Admin site (localhost:8888/site/crazysubdomain/wp-admin) and click on Settings - General and change the Site Address (URL) to JUST the site’s root (without the crazysubdomain).



Getting Started

1. Change permalink structure in Settings - permalinks, this will improve SEO, provide more readable links, and also create a .htaccess file in the root of the site. Do not start a permalink with a post title or category, rather use a number as this will help performance down the line.

2. Create Categories and Tags, reassign the default category to something other than uncategorised, and delete uncategorised.

3. If a deeper category/tag structure is required, a custom taxonomy can be created for the site. This would be especially useful if teh majority of posts will follow a similar structure. (For example music album reviews.)

4. Create a user named admin, but set permissions to subscriber level. This will thwart most non-human hacks. Create an ultra secure password for the admin account. (Visit https://www.grc.com/passwords.htm for a generator.)